The Matlab analysis project can be started by performing a simple exercise.
Read an image in MINC format into Matlab, sum the frames for each slice,
and then write the resulting image back out.  This will give familiarity
with reading and writing MINC files using C, dealing with the resulting
data using Matlab, and interfacing C and Matlab.  In order to accomplish
this first step, the following must be completed:

1) Create a routine for reading volumes stored in a MINC file into Matlab.
   This routine will have to be written in C, and can be based on Gaby's
   routine for reading MINC files.  The data can be stored as
   Image [Slice][Frame][X-coord][Y-coord].

   COMPLETED ON:

   STATUS: May 18, 1993 : Played around with Gaby's program (mincread.c).
               We found that it would choke on a non-dynamic MNC file.
               Experimented with summing images, displaying images, and
               just generally playing around with images using MATLAB.
           May 19, 1993 : More playing around.  Talked to David about
               the MINC routines that he is creating.  He is only supporting
               non-dynamic studies right now, though, so this is probably
               not the way to go.  Peter found an FTP site with a bunch of
               utilities for working with netCDF files from MATLAB.  This
               might be the way to go.
           May 20, 1993 : Gabe felt guilty and fixed his mincread program,
               so now we can read non-dynamic files.

2) Sum the frames for each slice to create a new volume of the form:
   Summed[Slice][X-coord][Y-coord].

   COMPLETED ON:

   STATUS: May 18, 1993 : Played around with summing images, etc (see above).
               It doesn't seem too hard, as MATLAB is REALLY powerful.
           May 20, 1993 : Actually created some blood activity curves using
               dynamic data provided by Sean.

3) Create a routine to write a volume stored in a Matlab array into a
   MINC file.  This routine must also be written in C.

   COMPLETED ON:

   STATUS:
